
------------
Enchanting
------------

Enchanting an item is generally done *for* a specific character.
It's 'attuned' to that user - the enchantment borrows some of the character's maxHP
(like casting a spell), and doesn't give it back until the enchantment is 'released'.
An enchantment can be released by the one it's attuned to at any time (takes a few 
minutes of concentration), and it can be de-attuned by its creator if the item is in
his possession (takes a few hours, some ritual).

Permanent enchantments are mostly a matter of legend - some royal figures claim to 
have enchanted items that require no attunement, but none of the magical academies have
managed to lay their hands on anything like that for study. Even if they are feasible,
all the legends about their creation involve the sacrifice of intelligent life, usually
in large numbers.

'Found' enchanted items are not active, but can be reactivated (and attuned) by even non-
casters; running a character's blood over them (together with an act of will), can attune
an unattuned enchantment to a character. Reattunement of an item that is still attuned probably
is not possible.

When an attunement is dropped, the HP returns after a long rest (like with casting).

The caster can always use his own HP to power an item attuned to another, but they rarely do so;
the mage can't break the attunement without having the item, so if the user runs off with it,
he's lost some of his power permanently.

Enchanting an item takes a lot of time - usually multiple days per level of enchantment,
and can easily ruin the target of the enchantment if something goes wrong.

Enchantments can be found in various spell lists, though rarely near the bottom.

Any academy or abbey that supports a sizeable contingent of casters most likely earns
its income almost entirely from the sale of enchanting services.


-------------
Mage Spells
-------------

-------- Level 0 (Cantrips):
Arcane Mark:      Inscribes a permanent personal rune (visible or invisible)
Detect Magic:     Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft for up to 1min/lvl or until concentration ends.
Ghost Sound:      Figment sounds for 1 round/level
Light:            Object shines like a torch for 10 min/lvl
Mage Hand:        5-pound telekinesis. Lasts until concentration ends.
Prestidigitation: Perform minor tricks for 1 hour (coin tricks, card tricks, etc).


--------- Level 1:
Feather Fall:     Objects or creatures fall slowly for 1 round/lvl or until landing.
Floating Disc:    Creates a 3-ft diameter horizontal disk that holds 100 lb/level. Lasts for 1 hr/level.
Mage Armor:       Gives subject +4 armor bonus for 1 hr/level
Magic Missile:    1d4 + 1 damage, fires floor((clvl + 1)/2) missiles - may be at multiple targets, in the same direction. Max 5 missiles.
Sleep:            Puts (clvl + 3) HD of creatures into magical slumber for 1 min/lvl
Shocking Grasp:   Touch delivers (clvl)d6 electricity damage (max 5d6)

--------- Level 2:
Acid Arrow:       Ranged touch attack; 2d4 damage each round, lasts ceil(clvl/3) rounds.
Flaming Sphere:   Creates a foot-wide ball of clinging fire. Does 2d6 damage, and 1d6 damage each round thereafter. Lasts clvl rounds.
Invisibility:     Subject is invisible for clvl minutes, until it attacks.
Inaudible:        Subject can produce no sound directly for clvl minutes, until it attacks.
Knock:            Opens locked or magically sealed door or lock. For magic locks, d20+MNDmod+clvl against the creator's lvl+MNDmod+10.
Levitate:         Subject moves up and down at your direction for clvl minutes. Magic attack against will every round if used on the unwilling.
Spider Climb:     Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings for 10*clvl minutes.

--------- Level 3:
Clairaudience:    Hear at a distance for clvl minutes. Can target any location you have been to or person you have met.
Clairvoyance:     See at a distance for clvl minutes. Can target any location you have been to, unless it has changed significantly (walls missing, etc).
Dispel Magic:     Cancel a magical spell or effect. Break an attunement or charm. Roll DEXmod+Study to break a fast-moving spell (fireball, eg).
Firestorm:        (clvl)d6 damage to a 20ft radius. 1d4 damage per round to all affected, save ends.
Fly:              Subject flies at speed of 60ft/round (fast run) for clvl minutes.
Lightning Bolt:   (clvl)d6 damage to a target, half damage to any creature in conducting contact with it.
Vampiric Touch:   Touch deals ceil(clvl/2)d6 damage, caster gains damage as temporary hp lasting 1 hour.
Heat Enchantment: The object (usually part of a weapon) so enchanted deals an extra 1d4 damage on hit, and glows slightly reddish.
                  It cannot be safely touched by any except the attuned wielder, and produces no heat while not being wielded by him/her.

--------- Level 4:
Animate Dead:     Creates clvl*2 HD of undead skeletons or zombies lasting clvl hours. Requires corpses.
Arcane Eye:       Invisible floating eye. Moves 30 ft/round, persists for clvl minutes.
Black Tentacles:  Tentacles grapple all within 20 ft radius of caster for clvl rounds.
Dimension Door:   Teleports you a short distance (the distance you can walk in a round).
Polymorph:        Gives one willing subject a new form for clvl minutes.
Stoneskin:        Ignore 5 points of damage per attack. Lasts clvl*10 minutes, or until the end of the encounter in which it was discharged.
Stonecloth:       The fabric so enchanted cannot easily be pierced or cut. An enchanted cloak grants an additional 1 AC against blades or piercing weapons,
                  and reduces damage taken from them by 1 if the attack spread is less than 4.

                  
